# JOINT EGO-NOISE SUPPRESSION AND KEYWORD SPOTTING ON SWEEPING ROBOTS

Yueyue Na<sup>1</sup>, Ziteng Wang<sup>1</sup>, Liang Wang<sup>2</sup>, Qiang Fu<sup>1</sup>

<sup>1</sup>Alibaba Group, China </br>
{yueyue.nyy, ziteng.wzt, fq153277}@alibaba-inc.com

<sup>2</sup>School of Electronics and Communication Engineering </br>
Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU), Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510275, China </br>
wangliang7@mail.sysu.edu.cn

# ABSTRACT
Keyword spotting is necessary for triggering human-machine speech interaction. It is a challenging task especially in low signal-to-noise ratio and moving scenarios, such as on a sweeping robot with strong ego-noise. This paper proposes a novel approach for joint ego-noise suppression and keyword detection. The keyword detection model accepts outputs from multi-look adaptive beamformers. The noise covariance matrix in the beamformer is in turn updated using the keyword absence probability given by the model, forming an end-to-end loop-back. The keyword model also adopts a multi-channel feature fusion using self-attention, and a hidden Markov model for online decoding. The performance of the proposed approach is verified on real-word datasets recorded on a sweeping robot.

# Generate Differential Beamformers
The differential beamformers used in this paper is generated by solving the following complex optimization problem by CVX [1].

$$
\begin{aligned}
    \mathbf{w} = &\min \mathbf{w}^H \mathbf{\Phi} \mathbf{w} \\
    s.t. \quad &\mathbf{w}^H \mathbf{a} = 1 \\
               &\mathbf{w}^H \mathbf{w} \le 10^{g_{min} / 10}
\end{aligned}
$$

Where $\mathbf{w}$ is the beamformer, $\mathbf{\Phi}$ is the noise covariance matrix, $\mathbf{a}$ is the look direction's steering vector, and $g_{min}$ is the white noise gain threshold. The first constraint is used to prevent target speech being cancelled (distortionless constraint), and the second constraint is used to avoid the white noise amplification phenomenon.








# References
- [1] [cvx] (http://cvxr.com/cvx/)
